Post/captions overview (#2)
edmistond/davidedmiston_hugo: content/post/2023/captioning-tools-extravaganza.md

---
title: "Captioning Tools Extravaganza!"
date: 2023-10-09
---

> So, you've found yourself attending or speaking at a conference that's not able to provide better accessibility tools. How do you navigate this?

Reviewer: I think the intro needs to make it clearer who the audience is. While reading the intro, I thought the audience was deaf/hoh individuals, but while reading the blog post, I felt it was educating conference organizers & co. I believe you want to share your experience with both audiences, right?

Maybe something along these lines:

> In this blog post, I'll share my experience with various captioning tools. I am deaf, not fluent in American Sign Language, and rely heavily on captioning software for work and beyond. By sharing my experience, I hope to help employers, conference organizers, live streamers, or whoever might want to improve accessibility through captions. I also want to share my experience with my deaf and hard of hearing peers who are researching captioning tools for themselves.

Author: That is a great point, thanks! Let me give some thought to how I want to phrase that... the audience for the post _is_ rather wide. :)

### But first, a disclaimer...

I can't write or talk extensively about automatic captioning tools without taking a moment to note that they're controversial. Many in the Deaf community regard them as "craptions," don't think they provide good accessibility, and prefer actual [human captioners](https://whitecoatcaptioning.com/) instead. Others don't like captions at all, and prefer to have sign language interpreters available. Still others use automatic captioning extensively, find it adequate to their needs, and for whatever reason, prefer to use it.

> Personally, I fall into this latter camp; I'm not ASL-fluent, and I've used automatic captioning extensively since late 2018. In the beginning, it was rather rough and inaccurate, but in the intervening years they've improved rather dramatically. I love and respect the human captioners that I've worked with, but having captions be instantly available any time of day or night was a game-changer for me, and I've progressed more in my career in the last five years than I did in the previous 15, solely due to being able to fully participate.

Reviewer: Be sure to spell the first ASL mention out.

> A conference I regularly attend - Stir Trek in Columbus, Ohio - runs a series of repeating announcements on the projector screens before each talk. Including a brief educational slide about automatic captions might be a _great_ idea here.

With all of that said, let's examine options across various platforms. I will note if options are free or paid, but since prices are always changing, I'm not going to make an effort to call those out specifically.

### As a Presenter, I want captioning, so that my talk is accessible

> Generally, the usual advice for speaking applies. Speak as clearly as you can, avoid cross-talk if you're co-presenting with someone. If you're doing a Q&A session, it's helpful to repeat the question back to make sure it shows up in the captioning feed.

Reviewer: Here the audience seems to be speakers at conferences. Since it's less likely that they read this than conference organizers, I'd ask conference organizers to ask speakers to speak clearly, etc., so the captioning tool works well and their talk is accessible.

Author: I think I'm going to leave this here, but add a note for conference organizers to that effect as well - it's a good point.

I'm also hoping conferences might point their speakers to this as a resource. :)

If you're able, turn on captions while you're doing practice runs for the talk. This should give you a sense of how accurate these tools are and how they sometimes misunderstand what you say. If your talk uses uncommon tech jargon, it's helpful to know how it may come up on screen.

#### Windows Live Captions
- **Free, requires Windows 11 22H2 or newer, works offline**

> _My thoughts_: Quick and pretty accurate, deals well with accents. Can be a little glitchy with repeating fragments of a sentence that's not finalized. Includes a profanity filter. I use this heavily every single day on both my work and home machines, and it's tremendously useful. This requires downloading several hundred megabytes of supporting files, so be sure to set it up ahead of time.

Reviewer: I would remove "my thoughts" everywhere. It's a blog post, and you are writing this in the first person, so it's clear that this is your opinion. Don't think that spelling it out is necessary. 
```suggestion
Quick and pretty accurate, deals well with accents. Can be a little glitchy with repeating fragments of a sentence that's not finalized. Includes a profanity filter. I use this heavily every single day on both my work and home machines, and it's tremendously useful. This requires downloading several hundred megabytes of supporting files, so be sure to set it up ahead of time.
```

#### PowerPoint Live Captions
- **Free, included in PowerPoint, cloud-based**

_My thoughts_: I've seen one or two presentations that used this, and it seems to work well. It uses a cloud-based service, so you will need a stable internet connection for it to work. Also, the captions may stop, or at least won't be visible, if you switch out of PowerPoint to do a live demo of something.

#### Google Slides Live Captions
- **Free, included in Google Slides**

_My thoughts_: I haven't used this one personally; one of the draft reviewers mentioned it. Google Meet's built-in captions are high quality in my experience, so I would expect these to be on a similar level. Experiment first.

#### Apple Live Captions
- **Free, requires macOS 13 Ventura or newer, requires Apple Silicon, works offline**
- **Also available on iOS 16 or newer, requires iPhone 11 or newer**
- **Also available on iPadOS 16 or newer, [see instructions for supported devices](https://support.apple.com/guide/ipad/get-live-captions-beta-ipad0bbca12e/ipados)**
- **Does not work if screen recording (including DisplayLink) is active**

> _My thoughts_: I appreciate that Apple added this. Unfortunately, I think it is the weakest of the available options. In my experience, it struggles more with accuracy and with technical vocabulary than other options do, but it's absolutely work trying it out for yourself. Also, note that depending on how your machine is set up, it may not function - Apple disables it by rendering a gray box over the captions window if any sort of screen recording software is active. This, unfortunately, includes when you are using DisplayLink adapters to get multiple external displays on M1/M2 Macs that wouldn't otherwise support it; DisplayLink on the Mac is implemented using screen recording.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
_My thoughts_: I appreciate that Apple added this. Unfortunately, I think it is the weakest of the available options. In my experience, it struggles more with accuracy and with technical vocabulary than other options do, but it's absolutely worth trying it out for yourself. Also, note that depending on how your machine is set up, it may not function - Apple disables it by rendering a gray box over the captions window if any sort of screen recording software is active. This, unfortunately, includes when you are using DisplayLink adapters to get multiple external displays on M1/M2 Macs that wouldn't otherwise support it; DisplayLink on the Mac is implemented using screen recording.
```

### Wrapping Up

This blog post has been brewing for quite a while; I don't think anyone has written up a comprehensive overview of captioning solutions. I've been involved with the CNCF Deaf/HOH Working Group and that's inspired me to finally get around to writing this; I hope that readers have found it useful. It's absolutely not ideal that we often end up doing the work for our own accessibility, but even so - it's useful to have some solutions you can recommend, and hopefully it's a good resource for conferences as well.

If you have any questions or feel I've missed an important option, please feel free to hit me up on Mastodon, email me (it's my last name and first initial, no punctuation, @ Google's mailing service :)), open an issue (on the blog's git repository)[https://github.com/edmistond/davidedmiston_hugo], or find me on the CNCF Slack in #deaf-and-hard-of-hearing.

**Special Thanks**

> I'd like to thank the following folks for reviewing this before publication: Catherine Paganini, AmyJune Hineline, Rob Koch, Leon Adato

Reviewer: ```suggestion
I'd like to thank the following folks for reviewing this before publication: Catherine Paganini, AmyJune Hineline, Rob Koch, Leon Adato.
```

---
title: "Captioning Tools Extravaganza!"
date: 2023-10-09
tags: [captions, ml]
---

> In this post, I'm going to cover a wide range of automatic captioning tools based on my personal experiences with them. This is not a comprehensive list, I know there's more of them out there. For context, I'm deaf, and I'm not fluent in American Sign Language (ASL). Since 2018 when they started to become available, I've relied heavily on automatic captioning tools in my work and personal lives.

Reviewer: Some small suggestions + highlighting that captions are really important for you because you are deaf _and_ not fluent in ASL. While that is implied, I think that spelling it out might make it more clear. 

```suggestion
In this post, I'm going to cover a wide range of automatic captioning tools based on my personal experience. This is not a comprehensive list—there are far more tools than a single person can test. For context, I'm deaf and not fluent in American Sign Language (ASL), so captioning is critical for my professional career. Since 2018, when they started to become available, I've relied heavily on automatic captioning tools in my work and personal lives.
```

> By sharing my experiences in this post, I hope to help individuals, employers, conference organizers, live streamers, speakers, and anyone else interested get a better understanding of what tools are available and how well they work. I also want to share this information with any of my Deaf/HoH peers who are researching these tools as well.

Reviewer: I think we need to spell hard of hearing out since not everyone will be familiar with that acronym. 

```suggestion
By sharing my experiences in this post, I hope to help individuals, employers, conference organizers, live streamers, speakers, and anyone interested in better understanding what tools are available and how well they work. I also want to share this information with any of my deaf and hard of hearing peers researching these tools.
```
